Features.md, before:

# ESNext Features to Support in CoffeeScript

Per the [README](./README.md), we have two main goals for the future of CoffeeScript: adding support for important ES2015+ (ESNext) features that CoffeeScript currently lacks, and changing CoffeeScript’s output to be ESNext code. See also the [project board for CoffeeScript 2.0.0](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/projects/1).

Features are ordered by priority, which is determined (subjectively) by how important each feature is to the CoffeeScript community. The most important criterion is whether the lack of specific feature affects CoffeeScript’s viability for a potential project: if a developer must choose between CoffeeScript and a particular library or framework, whatever missing feature is causing that choice to need to be made is a top priority for us to fix. This list is based on the [issues](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues) for this repo and the discussion in [#8](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/8).

## Top Priority

These features affect interopability and should take priority over all other features. These should be implemented ASAP in the current compiler, in addition to any new compiler that gets created later.

### ~~Modules: `import` and `export` [(#7)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/7)~~

> CoffeeScript 1.x and 2

[This has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4300) and released as part of CoffeeScript 1.11.

### Classes: Extend ES Classes [(#22)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/22)

> CoffeeScript 2 only

As part of CoffeeScript 2, we will update CoffeeScript’s `class` to output an ES `class` keyword, so that ES2015 classes can be extended and so that CoffeeScript classes can be extended in ES. We will also revise CoffeeScript’s class output to handle `this` in a constructor before calling `super`, and any other changes we need to make to adhere to ES syntax. This is the “must-do” part of classes; improving the output by making it more idiomatic (not using `prototype` or `__super__`, etc.) is a separate item under Medium Priority below. This is in progress at [jashkenas/coffeescript #4354](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4354).

### ~~Tagged template literals [(#28)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/28)~~

> CoffeeScript 1.x and 2

[This has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4352) and released as part of CoffeeScript 1.12.

## Medium Priority

These features aren’t required for CoffeeScript to be used in any project, but there’s great desire in the community for these to be added.

### Classes: Idiomatic ES Output [(#22)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/22)

> CoffeeScript 2 only

Building off of the essential class-related items in Top Priority, this item is for the nonessential items like removing our dependence on `prototype` and `__super__`, and generally cleaning up our output and making it more idiomatic. This is where we would also add support for getters and setters [(#17)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/17) and the `static` keyword. This is in progress at [jashkenas/coffeescript #4354](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4354).

### ~~`async`/`await` [(#10)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/10)~~

> CoffeeScript 2

[This has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/3757) into the `2` branch.

### ~~Backticked blocks [(#42)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/42)~~

> CoffeeScript 1.x and 2

[This has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4357) and released as part of CoffeeScript 1.12.

## Low Priority

These are nice-to-have features that should be implemented as time permits, probably only in the “new” compiler if one gets created. Any change that causes ES2015 output and isn’t opt-in needs to either be enabled by a flag or only in the new, ESNext-outputting compiler.

### ~~Template literals [(#41)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/41)~~

> CoffeeScript 2 only

[This has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4365) into the `2` branch.

### ~~Fat arrows `=>` output as `=>` [(#8)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/8)~~

> CoffeeScript 2 only

[This has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4311) into the `2` branch.

### Destructuring assignment [(#18)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/18)

> CoffeeScript 2 only

### ~~`for … of` [(#11)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/11)~~

> CoffeeScript 1.x and 2

[This is has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4306) and released as part of CoffeeScript 1.12.

## Uncertain

These are features we’re not sure we will implement, in any version of CoffeeScript:

### Block assignment `let` and `const` assignment operators [(#31)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/31) or [(#35)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/35)

> CoffeeScript 2 only

For whatever reason, `let` and `const` are among the most popular features introduced by ES2015. Awaiting consensus on which of these two proposals we want to adopt, if either. Per [#1](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/1), there seems to be consensus that we want some way to support `const` and probably `let` in CoffeeScript.

If we support `const` only, [(#31)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/31), a new `:=` operator would be added, e.g. `a := 1` would become `const a = 1;`. This would give us the “throw an error if a `const`-declared variable is reassigned” feature of `const`, plus block-scoping but only for `const`s.

If we support `let` and `const`, [(#35)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/35), which would be necessary if we want to gain the block-scope aspects of the new `let` and `const` keywords, we would need two new operators: `:=` for `let` and `:==` for `const`. The `:=`-defined variables would get their `let` declarations grouped together at the tops of their blocks.

### Inferred `let` assignment [(#1)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/1)

> CoffeeScript 2 only

When a variable isn’t declared using a new operator that produces `const` (see above), CoffeeScript should automatically declare it with `let` whenever possible.

## No Action

These are other features that have been discussed, but the consensus at the moment is that no action should be taken to implement them.

### Decorators [(#9)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/9)

### Type annotations [(#12)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/12)

Commit message:

Core classes PR has been merged

Features.md, after:

# ESNext Features to Support in CoffeeScript

Per the [README](./README.md), we have two main goals for the future of CoffeeScript: adding support for important ES2015+ (ESNext) features that CoffeeScript currently lacks, and changing CoffeeScript’s output to be ESNext code. See also the [project board for CoffeeScript 2.0.0](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/projects/1).

Features are ordered by priority, which is determined (subjectively) by how important each feature is to the CoffeeScript community. The most important criterion is whether the lack of specific feature affects CoffeeScript’s viability for a potential project: if a developer must choose between CoffeeScript and a particular library or framework, whatever missing feature is causing that choice to need to be made is a top priority for us to fix. This list is based on the [issues](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues) for this repo and the discussion in [#8](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/8).

## Top Priority

These features affect interopability and should take priority over all other features. These should be implemented ASAP in the current compiler, in addition to any new compiler that gets created later.

### ~~Modules: `import` and `export` [(#7)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/7)~~

> CoffeeScript 1.x and 2

[This has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4300) and released as part of CoffeeScript 1.11.

### ~~Classes: Extend ES Classes, Idiomatic Methods [(#22)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/22)~~

> CoffeeScript 2 only

[This has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4354) into the `2` branch.

### ~~Tagged template literals [(#28)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/28)~~

> CoffeeScript 1.x and 2

[This has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4352) and released as part of CoffeeScript 1.12.

## Medium Priority

These features aren’t required for CoffeeScript to be used in any project, but there’s great desire in the community for these to be added.

### Classes: Idiomatic `super` [(#22)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/22)

> CoffeeScript 2 only

CoffeeScript’s `super` should always be compiled to ES2015’s `super`. This is in progress at [jashkenas/coffeescript #4424](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4424).

### Classes: `static`, `get` and `set` keywords [(#17)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/17)

> CoffeeScript 2 only

Classes should support getters and setters [(#17)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/17) and the `static` keyword.

### ~~`async`/`await` [(#10)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/10)~~

> CoffeeScript 2

[This has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/3757) into the `2` branch.

### ~~Backticked blocks [(#42)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/42)~~

> CoffeeScript 1.x and 2

[This has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4357) and released as part of CoffeeScript 1.12.

## Low Priority

These are nice-to-have features that should be implemented as time permits, probably only in the “new” compiler if one gets created. Any change that causes ES2015 output and isn’t opt-in needs to either be enabled by a flag or only in the new, ESNext-outputting compiler.

### Destructuring assignment [(#18)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/18)

> CoffeeScript 2 only

### ~~Template literals [(#41)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/41)~~

> CoffeeScript 2 only

[This has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4365) into the `2` branch.

### ~~Fat arrows `=>` output as `=>` [(#8)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/8)~~

> CoffeeScript 2 only

[This has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4311) into the `2` branch.

### ~~`for … of` [(#11)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/11)~~

> CoffeeScript 1.x and 2

[This is has been merged](https://github.com/jashkenas/coffeescript/pull/4306) and released as part of CoffeeScript 1.12.

## No Action

These are other features that have been discussed, but the consensus at the moment is that no action should be taken to implement them.

### Block assignment `let` and `const` assignment operators [(#31)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/31) or [(#35)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/35)

### Inferred `let` assignment [(#1)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/1)

### Decorators [(#9)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/9)

### Type annotations [(#12)](https://github.com/coffeescript6/discuss/issues/12)
